== Welcome to ARL-Inventory

1. create arl-inventory application

$ rails new arl-inventory

2. added devise gem in Gemfile

== User Model

3. install devise gem

$ rails g devise:install

4. create user model

$ rails g devise User

* added :display_name field, and enable all of additional fields and indexes

$ rails db:migrate

* Updated appliction.html.erb with layout 

* created flashes_helper in app\helpers\application_helper.rb

def flashes_helper
    results = []
    flashes = [:alert, :error, :info, :notice, :success]

    flashes.each do |name, msg|
      hidden = "hide" if flash[name].blank?
      results << content_tag(:div, content_tag(:p, flash[name]), class: "alert alter-#{name} #{hidden} alert-block").html_safe
    end
    results.join("").html_safe
end

* created title and show_title? method in \app\helpers\home_helper.rb

def title(page_title, show_title=true)
  content_for(:title){h(page_title.to_s)}
  @show_title = show_title
end

def show_title?
  @show_title
end

* add twitter bootstrap library to application.css and application.js 


6. generated home controller

$ rails g controller home index

* update config\routes.rb point root to home#index

7. generated inventory model

$ rails g scaffold inventory stockenumber:string name:string description:text barcode:string purchase_date:date

$ rails g scaffold inventory_status name:string

$ rails g scaffold location name:string address:string latitude:float longitude:float

$ rails g scaffold inventory_record user:references inventory:references inventory_status:references location:references latitude:string longitude:string 

* Added relationship between all models and validations

* models/user.rb

  validates :email, :presence => true
  validates :password, :presence => true
  validates :password_confirmation, :presence => true
  validates :display_name, :presence => true

  has_many :inventory_records
  has_many :inventories, :through => :inventory_records

* models/inventory.rb
  validates :barcode, :presence => true
  validates :description, :presence => true
  validates :name, :presence => true
  validates :purchase_date, :presence => true

* models/inventory_status.rb

  validates :name, :presence => true
  has_many :inventory_records

* models/location.rb

  validates :name, :presence => true
  validates :latitude, :presence => true
  validates :longitude, :presence => true

  has_many :inventory_records

* models/inventory_record.rb
  
  belongs_to :user
  belongs_to :inventory
  belongs_to :inventory_status
  belongs_to :location

== User model
* Added avatar method

def avatar
  Gravatar.new(self.email).image_url  
end

8. generated pre-populate data set in db\seed.rb

9. added RoutingError handler at the end of routes.rb

* config\routes.rb

match '*path(.:format)', :to=> 'application#routing_error'

* controller\application_controller.rb

def routing_error
  render_not_found
end

def render_not_found
  flash[:notice] = 'The object you tried to access does not exist!'
  redirect_to root_path
end

10. added ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound handler

* controller\application_controller.rb

rescue_from ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound, :with => :render_not_found

11. generated User view for customization

$ rails g devise:views devise

12. Added javascript to handle slidUp alert div in application.js

$(function(){
  $('.alert').delay(5000).slideUp('slow');
});

13. Added validation for InventoryRecord model and added more field in attr_accessible

/*  
    attr_accessible 

    validates :user_id, :presence => true
    validates :inventory_id, :presence => true
    validates :inventory_status_id , :presence => true
    validates :location_id, :presence => true
*/

14. Added "rolify", "cancan" gems to handle user roles

* modified Gemfile
* gem 'rolify' # role management
* gem 'cancan' # authroization

15. Create the Ability class from Cancan

$ rails generate cancan:ability

16. Create the Role class from rolify

$ rails generate rolify:role

17. Run migrations

$ rake db:migrate

Added "cancan" gem to handle user roles: cancan expect a curent_user method to exist in the controller, so we need to setup some authentication (such as Devise)

* https://github.com/EppO/rolify/wiki/Tutorial

* https://github.com/ryanb/cancan

* http://www.tonyamoyal.com/2010/07/28/rails-authentication-with-devise-and-cancan-customizing-devise-controllers/

* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2170108/activerecordhasmanythroughassociationnotfounderror-in-usercontrollerwelcome

/*********** this is replaced by using rolify gem

14. Added typical users HABTM (Has and belongs to many) roles relationship

$ rails g scaffold role name:string

$ rake db:migrate

$ rails g scaffold roles_users role:references user:references

$ rake db:migrate

15. Added relationship between user and role model

* user model

has_many :roles_users
has_many :roles, :through => :roles_users

* role model

has_many :roles_users
has_many :users, :through => :roles_users

*****************/

18. enable dynamic shortcuts for user class (user.is_admin? like methods), uncomment the line in 'config/initializers/rolify.rb'

config.use_dynamic_shortcuts


19. added gmaps4rails gem to Gemfile  for Google Maps for Rails

https://github.com/apneadiving/Google-Maps-for-Rails

http://learningpoint2.wordpress.com/2012/12/19/google-map-in-rails/

gem 'gmaps4rails'

* copy the assets to your app

$ rails g gmaps4rails:install 

* updated models\location.rb

acts_as_gmappable :latitude => 'latitude', :longitude => 'longitude', :process_geocoding => :geocode?, :address => 'address', :normalized_address => 'address',:msg => "Sorry, not even Google could figure out where that is"

  def geocode?
    (!address.blank? && (latitude.blank? || longitude.blank?)) || address_changed?
  end

  def gmaps4rails_address
  address     
  end

  def gmaps4rails_infowindow
    "<h4>#{name}</h4>" << "<h4>#{address}</h4>"
  end

* Added @json = Location.all_to_gmaps4rails in controllers/location.rb

* Added following in layout\application.html.erb at the footer area

<%= yield :scripts %>

* Added <%= gmaps4rails(@json) %> in views/locations/index.html.erb









In Rails, the model is handled by what's called an object-relational mapping
layer entitled Active Record. This layer allows you to present the data from
database rows as objects and embellish these data objects with business logic
methods. You can read more about Active Record in
link:files/vendor/rails/activerecord/README.html.

The controller and view are handled by the Action Pack, which handles both
layers by its two parts: Action View and Action Controller. These two layers
are bundled in a single package due to their heavy interdependence. This is
unlike the relationship between the Active Record and Action Pack that is much
more separate. Each of these packages can be used independently outside of
Rails. You can read more about Action Pack in
link:files/vendor/rails/actionpack/README.html.


== Getting Started

1. At the command prompt, create a new Rails application:
       <tt>rails new myapp</tt> (where <tt>myapp</tt> is the application name)

2. Change directory to <tt>myapp</tt> and start the web server:
       <tt>cd myapp; rails server</tt> (run with --help for options)

3. Go to http://localhost:3000/ and you'll see:
       "Welcome aboard: You're riding Ruby on Rails!"

4. Follow the guidelines to start developing your application. You can find
the following resources handy:

* The Getting Started Guide: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html
* Ruby on Rails Tutorial Book: http://www.railstutorial.org/


== Debugging Rails

Sometimes your application goes wrong. Fortunately there are a lot of tools that
will help you debug it and get it back on the rails.

First area to check is the application log files. Have "tail -f" commands
running on the server.log and development.log. Rails will automatically display
debugging and runtime information to these files. Debugging info will also be
shown in the browser on requests from 127.0.0.1.

You can also log your own messages directly into the log file from your code
using the Ruby logger class from inside your controllers. Example:

  class WeblogController < ActionController::Base
    def destroy
      @weblog = Weblog.find(params[:id])
      @weblog.destroy
      logger.info("#{Time.now} Destroyed Weblog ID ##{@weblog.id}!")
    end
  end

The result will be a message in your log file along the lines of:

  Mon Oct 08 14:22:29 +1000 2007 Destroyed Weblog ID #1!

More information on how to use the logger is at http://www.ruby-doc.org/core/

Also, Ruby documentation can be found at http://www.ruby-lang.org/. There are
several books available online as well:

* Programming Ruby: http://www.ruby-doc.org/docs/ProgrammingRuby/ (Pickaxe)
* Learn to Program: http://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/ (a beginners guide)

These two books will bring you up to speed on the Ruby language and also on
programming in general.


== Debugger

Debugger support is available through the debugger command when you start your
Mongrel or WEBrick server with --debugger. This means that you can break out of
execution at any point in the code, investigate and change the model, and then,
resume execution! You need to install ruby-debug to run the server in debugging
mode. With gems, use <tt>sudo gem install ruby-debug</tt>. Example:

  class WeblogController < ActionController::Base
    def index
      @posts = Post.all
      debugger
    end
  end

So the controller will accept the action, run the first line, then present you
with a IRB prompt in the server window. Here you can do things like:

  >> @posts.inspect
  => "[#<Post:0x14a6be8
          @attributes={"title"=>nil, "body"=>nil, "id"=>"1"}>,
       #<Post:0x14a6620
          @attributes={"title"=>"Rails", "body"=>"Only ten..", "id"=>"2"}>]"
  >> @posts.first.title = "hello from a debugger"
  => "hello from a debugger"

...and even better, you can examine how your runtime objects actually work:

  >> f = @posts.first
  => #<Post:0x13630c4 @attributes={"title"=>nil, "body"=>nil, "id"=>"1"}>
  >> f.
  Display all 152 possibilities? (y or n)

Finally, when you're ready to resume execution, you can enter "cont".


== Console

The console is a Ruby shell, which allows you to interact with your
application's domain model. Here you'll have all parts of the application
configured, just like it is when the application is running. You can inspect
domain models, change values, and save to the database. Starting the script
without arguments will launch it in the development environment.

To start the console, run <tt>rails console</tt> from the application
directory.

Options:

* Passing the <tt>-s, --sandbox</tt> argument will rollback any modifications
  made to the database.
* Passing an environment name as an argument will load the corresponding
  environment. Example: <tt>rails console production</tt>.

To reload your controllers and models after launching the console run
<tt>reload!</tt>

More information about irb can be found at:
link:http://www.rubycentral.org/pickaxe/irb.html


== dbconsole

You can go to the command line of your database directly through <tt>rails
dbconsole</tt>. You would be connected to the database with the credentials
defined in database.yml. Starting the script without arguments will connect you
to the development database. Passing an argument will connect you to a different
database, like <tt>rails dbconsole production</tt>. Currently works for MySQL,
PostgreSQL and SQLite 3.

== Description of Contents

The default directory structure of a generated Ruby on Rails application:

  |-- app
  |   |-- assets
  |       |-- images
  |       |-- javascripts
  |       `-- stylesheets
  |   |-- controllers
  |   |-- helpers
  |   |-- mailers
  |   |-- models
  |   `-- views
  |       `-- layouts
  |-- config
  |   |-- environments
  |   |-- initializers
  |   `-- locales
  |-- db
  |-- doc
  |-- lib
  |   `-- tasks
  |-- log
  |-- public
  |-- script
  |-- test
  |   |-- fixtures
  |   |-- functional
  |   |-- integration
  |   |-- performance
  |   `-- unit
  |-- tmp
  |   |-- cache
  |   |-- pids
  |   |-- sessions
  |   `-- sockets
  `-- vendor
      |-- assets
          `-- stylesheets
      `-- plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/assets
  Contains subdirectories for images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

test
  Unit and functional tests along with fixtures. When using the rails generate
  command, template test files will be generated for you and placed in this
  directory.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.
